[... end of page 24 ...]
be
downloadedseparatelyfromtheGrimmelab’srepository. Thextbbinaryneedstobecopiedtothedirectoryto
whichtheorcabinarieswerecopiedto.
1.2 Units and Conversion Factors
Internally the program uses atomic units. This means that the unit of energy is the Hartree (Eh) and the unit of
lengthistheBohrradius(𝑎 ). Thefollowingconversionfactorstootherunitsareused:
0
1Eh = 27.2113834eV
1eV = 8065.54477cm−1 =23.0605 kcal
mol
1cm−1 = 29979.2458MHz
1𝑎 = 0.5291772083Å
0
1a.t.u. = 2.418884310−17s
2 Chapter1. GeneralInformation

--- Page 25 ---
CHAPTER
TWO
THE ARCHITECTURE OF ORCA
In this chapter we describe the broad features of ORCA’s internal structure. This knowledge is not necessary to
carryoutcalculationswithORCA.Itmay,however,helptounderstandwhichmodulesarebeingcalledinwhich
orderandwhythisishappeninginthesequenceitdoes.
2.1 The structure of the ORCA source code
ThesourcecodeofORCAisbroadlystructuredinthreeparts:
1) Themainprogram.
2) Thecodeforthe“ORCAtoollibrary”.
3) Thecodeforindividualmodules.
ThecodeintheORCAtoollibraryisbeingcompiledintoonelibraryfilethatsubsequentlyislinkedwithallORCA
modules. Thecodefortheindividualmodulescanmakeuseofeverythingthatisinthelibrary,butthemodules
arenotsupposedtolinktooruseanycodeofthemainprogramoranyothermodule. Thiswayofstructuringthe
codeensuresthatthemodulesremainmaintainableandthattherearenocomplexandunwantedinterdependencies
thatwouldmakeiteventuallyimpossibletoexchangemodulesfornewcode.
2.2 The shell structure of ORCA
Thewholeorganizationofthecodeandtheinformationflowcanbethoughtofasconsistingofashellstructure
whereashellisalayerofsoftwarewithwell-definedfunctionsandawell-definedinterfacetotheshellsaboveand
belowit.
3

[... start of page 26 ...]
ORCAManual,Release6.0.0
The lowest layer of the shell consists of the SHARK integral package. This is the “motor” of the program that
takescareofmostcomputeintensivetasksandessentiallyallpartsthatinvolveintegralsoverbasisfunctions. This
amountstocalculatingallone-andtwo-electronintegrals, formingFockandFock-likematricesandperforming
integraltransformationsusingallkindsofbasissetsandkernels. MostoftheSHARKcodeisindependentofthe
remainingORCAsourcecodeinfrastructure.
The layer above SHARK is the actual ORCA source code. ORCA interacts with the user through the interface
anditorchestratestheenti